Combine ground beef, onion, and garlic in large stockpot. Cook and stir over medium heat until beef is brown. Drain.
Stir in chili powder, salt, oregano, tomatoes, and tomato sauce; break up tomatoes while stirring. Heat to boiling, reduce heat to simmer, and cover. Cook, stirring occasionally, for 1 hour.
Stir in beans. Simmer, uncovered, for 20 minutes; stir occasionally.
Place the ground beef in a large pot and throw in the garlic. Cook over medium heat until browned. Drain off the excess fat, and then pour in the tomato sauce, chili powder, cumin, oregano, salt and cayenne. Stir together well, cover, and then reduce the heat to low. Simmer for 1 hour, stirring occasionally. If the mixture becomes overly dry, add 1/2 cup water at a time as needed.
After an hour, place the masa harina in a small bowl. Add 1/2 cup water and stir together with a fork. Dump the masa mixture into the chili. Stir together well, and then taste and adjust the seasonings. Add more masa paste and/or water to get the chili to your preferred consistency, or to add more corn flavor. Add the beans and simmer for 10 minutes. Serve with shredded cheddar, chopped onions, tortilla chips and lime wedges.
Cook ground meat with onions and peppers in dutch oven.
Drain excess grease using your preferred method and then add tomatoes, seasonings, and water, bring to a boil.
Add beans, cover and simmer 1-2 hours.
Serve with toppings.
Peel and chop the onion with a large kitchen knife to measure 1 cup. Peel and finely chop the garlic.
In a 3-quart saucepan, cook the beef, onion and garlic over medium heat 8 to 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, until beef is thoroughly cooked. Place a strainer or colander in the sink; line with a double thickness of paper towels. Pour the beef mixture into the strainer to drain. Return beef mixture to saucepan; discard paper towels and any juices in the bowl.
Into the beef, stir the chili powder, oregano, cumin, salt, pepper sauce and tomatoes with their liquid.
Heat the mixture to boiling over high heat. Once mixture is boiling, reduce heat just enough so mixture bubbles gently. Cover with lid; cook 1 hour, stirring occasionally.
Stir in the beans with their liquid. Heat to boiling over high heat. Once mixture is boiling, reduce heat just enough so mixture bubbles gently. Cook uncovered about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally, until desired thickness.
Combine the ancho chiles (dried poblano peppers) and canned fire-roasted tomatoes. Both add smokiness, while cinnamon, oregano, and cumin bring spice and warmth.
Onion, garlic, chicken broth, salt, pepper, and oil also contribute to the flavor base.
Remove stems and seeds from chiles; tear into large pieces. Transfer to a blender. Blend with tomatoes, onion, garlic, 1/2 cup broth, cinnamon, oregano, cumin, and 2 tablespoons oil. Generously season with salt and pepper. Puree until smooth, about 1 minute. Transfer mixture to a saucepan; simmer over medium, stirring occasionally, until thick and slightly darkened, about 20 minutes.
Heat remaining 2 tablespoons oil in a large pot over medium-high. Add ground turkey; season with salt. Cook through, breaking meat up, about 5 minutes.
Stir in tomato mixture, smoked turkey, beans, and remaining 1 cup broth. Simmer until slightly thickened, about 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. Serve, topped with sour cream and cilantro.
Boil 3 cups water in a medium saucepan. Meanwhile, heat a cast-iron skillet over medium-high heat. Add ancho chiles and toast, turning frequently, until fragrant and darkened, about 2 minutes. Transfer to a medium mixing bowl and cover with boiling water. (Use a small bowl or plate to keep submerged, if necessary.) Let stand until chiles are very soft, at least 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, place cumin seeds in skillet over medium heat and toast, stirring frequently, until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Immediately transfer to a mortar and pestle or spice grinder and let cool completely. Grind to a fine powder; set aside.
Drain ancho chiles in a colander, reserving soaking liquid; remove and discard stems and seeds. Place chiles in mortar and pestle with garlic and chipotle chiles, and pound into a thick paste (or pulse in a food processor). Set aside.
Heat oil in a large pot over medium-high heat until shimmering. Add chopped vegetables and 1 tablespoon salt and cook, stirring frequently, until caramelized and golden brown, 45 minutes to 1 hour. (Reduce heat if necessary to prevent blackening.)
Add cumin and cook over medium-high heat, stirring, until fragrant, 30 seconds. Add chile mixture, tomato paste, and 1 teaspoon salt and cook, stirring, 5 minutes. Stir in tomatoes, reserved chile-soaking liquid, lentils, and 5 cups water. Increase heat to high and bring to a boil, then reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer, stirring occasionally, 30 minutes.
Add sweet potatoes, black beans, and black-eyed peas, stirring to combine. Return to a simmer and cook, covered, stirring occasionally, until lentils and potatoes are tender, about 30 minutes. Serve with cilantro and avocado cream.
Bring 4 1/2 cups water to a boil in a saucepan. Preheat oven to 300 degrees. Spread ancho, guajillo, mulato, and chipotle chiles and garlic on a baking sheet. Roast until softened, about 7 minutes. Let cool slightly.
Tear chiles into pieces with gloved hands, discarding stems and seeds. Add to boiling water, remove from heat, and top with a smaller plate to keep chiles submerged. Let stand 30 minutes. Drain, reserving 1 cup water. Puree chiles, reserved chile water, the tomatoes and their juices, and 5 cups warm water in a blender.
Peel garlic. Pound garlic, cumin, oregano, 2 teaspoons salt, and the vinegar into a paste with a mortar and pestle.
Heat 1 1/2 tablespoons oil in a Dutch oven or other large heavy pot over medium-high heat. Season beef generously with salt and pepper. Working in batches and adding more oil as needed, cook beef until browned all over, 2 to 3 minutes. Transfer to a plate.
Reduce heat to medium. Add onion to pot, and cook until translucent, about 5 minutes. Stir in garlic paste, and cook until fragrant, about 2 minutes. Stir in beef and chile puree, and season with salt and pepper. Raise heat, partially cover pot, and simmer chili until thickened, about 2 1/2 hours. Stir in beans, and cook until heated through. Serve with sour cream, cheese, and jalapeno.
Heat oil in a large pot over medium-high. Add garlic, onion, and chiles; cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, about 5 minutes. Add cumin and cinnamon; cook, stirring constantly, just until fragrant, about 1 minute.
Add beef and season with a pinch of salt. Cook, breaking up meat, until browned, about 5 minutes. Add vinegar and tomatoes with their juices; season with salt. Bring to a boil, then reduce heat and simmer, stirring occasionally, until thickened, about 10 minutes. Serve over rice with accompaniments.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Heat oil in a large ovenproof saute pan over medium-high heat. Add onion, carrots, and garlic, and season with salt. Cook, stirring occasionally, until onion is translucent, about 5 minutes. Add chili powder and tomato paste; cook, stirring, 30 seconds.
Stir in beef and cook, breaking up with the back of a spoon, until no longer red, about 5 minutes. Add tomatoes with their juices and beans, bring to a boil, and cook 2 minutes. Remove from heat.
Place guajillos in a large bowl, cover with boiling water, and weight with a small plate to keep submerged. Let sit until pliable, 15 minutes. Reserve 1 cup soaking liquid. Drain guajillos; discard stems and seeds. In a blender, blend guajillos, chipotle chile and sauce, and soaking liquid until smooth, about 2 minutes, scraping down side as needed. Pour mixture through a fine-mesh sieve set over a medium bowl, pressing on solids; discard solids. Set chile puree aside.
Heat a large Dutch oven or other heavy pot over medium-high. Season short ribs with salt and pepper and cook until browned, about 5 minutes. With a slotted spoon, transfer to a medium bowl. Add oil to pot, season beef chuck with salt and pepper, and cook until browned, about 5 minutes (do not crowd pot; work in batches if necessary). Transfer to bowl with short ribs.
Reduce heat to medium and add onion, garlic, and 1/2 cup water. Cook, stirring and scraping up browned bits with a wooden spoon, until onion is translucent, about 3 minutes. Add cumin, oregano, and cornmeal and cook until fragrant, 1 minute. Add meat, broth, chile puree, and just enough water to cover meat, if necessary; bring to a boil over high. Partially cover, reduce heat, and simmer 1 hour. Uncover and cook until meat is tender and chili is slightly thickened, 30 to 45 minutes. Add vinegar to taste.
In a large Dutch oven or other heavy pot, heat oil over medium-high. Add onion; cook until softened, 8 minutes. Add garlic, chiles, rosemary, cumin, oregano, and cayenne and cook until fragrant, 2 minutes; season with salt. Add turkey and cook, breaking up meat with a wooden spoon, until cooked through, 5 minutes. Add broth, beans, and hominy; bring to a boil over high. Partially cover, reduce heat, and simmer until chili is thickened slightly, 25 minutes. Stir in cornmeal and cook 15 minutes. Season to taste with salt.
Season chicken on both sides with salt and pepper. Heat oil in a large (6 quart) pot over medium-high heat until shimmering. Sear chicken in batches, turning once, until golden, 7 to 8 minutes. Transfer to a plate.
Reduce heat to medium; add onion and poblanos. Cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, about 5 minutes. Stir in garlic, cumin, coriander, and chili powder, and cook until fragrant, 1 minute more. Stir in canned chiles. Add chicken back to pot along with broth and juices, scraping up bits from the bottom of the pan. Bring to a boil then reduce heat to medium-low and simmer, partially covered, until chicken is cooked through and flavors meld, about 15 minutes.
Remove chicken to a plate and shred into bite-size pieces. In a small bowl, whisk together cornmeal with 1 cup hot cooking liquid. Return to pot, along with beans, and simmer 5 minutes. Stir in chicken until heated through. Taste and adjust seasoning. Divide among bowls and top with sour cream, fresh cilantro sprigs, tortilla chips and lime.
Toast dried chiles in a dry skillet over medium-high heat until fragrant and blistered, 2 to 3 minutes per side. Remove stem and seeds; discard. Transfer chiles to a large measuring cup or bowl, and cover with hot water. Keep chiles submerged with a small bowl, and let soak for 30 minutes. Remove from water, and puree in a blender with 1/2 cup soaking liquid.
Heat a large heavy pot over high heat. Add 2 tablespoons oil. Season beef with 2 1/2 teaspoons salt and 1/2 teaspoon pepper. Brown beef in batches, adding more oil as needed, about 10 minutes. Transfer to a plate.
Add remaining tablespoon oil, the onions, garlic, and minced chiles to pot, and cook over medium-high heat until onions are translucent, about 5 minutes. (If the pan gets too dark, add a little water, and scrape up browned bits with a wooden spoon to deglaze.) Add cumin and oregano, and cook, stirring constantly, until fragrant, 30 seconds to 1 minute.
Stir in browned beef and chile puree. Add tomato puree, water, and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat, and simmer gently, partially covered, until meat is very tender and juices are thick, 2 1/2 to 3 hours. (Check pot once an hour for excessive evaporation; if chili seems dry, add a little water.) Season chili with salt, and stir in vinegar. Serve immediately (or refrigerate for up to 3 days, or freeze for up to 3 months; reheat in a pot over medium heat, stirring occasionally).
In a Dutch oven or large (5-quart) heavy pot, heat oil over medium-high. Add onions and garlic. Season with salt and pepper, and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, 3 to 5 minutes.
Add tomato paste, chili powder, chipotles, and cinnamon. Cook, stirring, until mixture has begun to brown, 2 to 3 minutes. Add beef, and cook, breaking it up with a spoon until no longer pink, about 5 minutes.
Add tomatoes with their juice, beer, and beans. Bring to a boil, and reduce to a rapid simmer. Cook over medium heat until chili has thickened slightly and beans are tender, about 5 minutes. Sprinkle with cheese, if desired.
In a large pot, heat oil over medium-high. Add onion and garlic; cook, stirring frequently, until onion is translucent and garlic is soft, about 4 minutes. Add cumin and chile powder, season with salt and pepper, and cook until spices are fragrant, 1 minute. Add zucchini and tomato paste; cook, stirring frequently, until tomato paste is deep brick red, 3 minutes. Stir in black beans, pinto beans, and both cans diced tomatoes. Add 2 cups water and bring mixture to a boil. Reduce to a medium simmer and cook until zucchini is tender and liquid reduces slightly, 20 minutes. Season with salt and pepper.
In a food processor, puree tomatillos until smooth. In a large Dutch oven or other heavy pot, heat oil over high. Add pork and cook until browned, 9 minutes. With a slotted spoon, transfer pork to a plate. Add onion, poblanos, and jalapenos to pot and cook until onion is translucent, 4 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. Add garlic and cook until fragrant, 30 seconds. Return pork to pot and add tomatillo puree and 2 1/2 cups water. Bring to a boil over high. Partially cover, reduce heat, and simmer until pork is tender, 1 1/2 to 2 hours. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
In a 5- to 6-quart slow cooker, combine beef, tomato puree, beans, onion (reserve 1 tablespoon for garnish), garlic, chili powder, 2 cups water, 2 teaspoons salt, and 1/2 teaspoon pepper. Cover, and cook on high, 6 hours (or on low, 8 hours). Serve chili topped with sour cream and reserved onion.
Preheat oven to 300 degrees. Spread chiles and garlic on a baking sheet. Roast until softened, 5 minutes. Let cool slightly.
Tear chiles into pieces, discarding stems and seeds. Add to boiling water, remove from heat, and top with a small plate. Let stand 30 minutes. Drain, reserving 1/2 cup water. Puree chiles, tomatoes, reserved water, and warm water.
Peel garlic. With a mortar and pestle, pound garlic, spices, herbs, 2 teaspoons salt, and the vinegar into a paste.
Heat oil in a Dutch oven over medium-high heat. Season pork generously with salt and pepper. Working in batches, cook pork until browned, about 4 minutes per side. Transfer to a plate.
Add onion to pot, and cook for 5 minutes. Stir in paste, and cook for 2 minutes. Stir in pork, yuca, beans, chile mixture, and salt and pepper to taste. Bring to a simmer. Cover, and place in oven until tender, about 3 hours. Stir in hominy, and serve with tortillas, crema or sour cream, and jalapenos if desired.
Bring a large pot of water to a boil over medium-high heat. Add salt pork and cook for 10 minutes; drain.
Heat olive oil in a medium Dutch-oven over low heat. Add pork and cook for 5 minutes. Add onion and celery and cook, stirring, until soft. Add fish stock and bay leaves, and bring to a simmer. Add potatoes and cook until just tender, about 15 minutes. Add shrimp, clams, and fish, and simmer for 5 minutes.
Heat cream in a small saucepan over medium-low heat; add to Dutch-oven. Season chowder with cayenne, salt, and white pepper. Serve hot.
In a stockpot, cook bacon until crisp. Drain bacon on a paper towel, and set aside; discard all but 2 tablespoons bacon fat. Add celery and onions; saute, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon, until translucent, about 7 minutes.
Sprinkle flour over onion mixture; cook, stirring with a wooden spoon, 2 to 3 minutes. Add clam juice, 1/2 cup water, potatoes, bay leaves, and 1/8 teaspoon of the pepper; cover; bring to a boil. Pick thyme leaves from stems; add both leaves and stems to pot. Reduce heat to medium low; simmer until potatoes are almost fork tender, about 12 minutes.
Add clams and reserved liquid, cover, and cook 4 minutes over medium heat. Add corn kernels, cover, and cook 4 to 6 minutes. Add milk and butter; cook until butter melts, about 5 minutes. Remove bay leaves and thyme stems; add remaining 1/8 teaspoon pepper and salt.
Drizzle with sherry, and garnish with bacon pieces. Serve immediately.
