A flock of banners fight their way through the telescoped forest and stir like birds towards the sound of roasting meat.
A musician is caught up in the strings of his instrument.
A subterranean passage unites all perfumes.
Add dresses that vibrate, and their vibration is in unison with the beating.
Add the branches of salt the white branches, all the shadow bubbles, and the sea-anemones.
All my blood courses in its glance.
Allow me to embrace your living and breathing body.
And yet the carriage overturned at full speed, carries as far as my last hesitation.
And yet these fine collapses are not lies more than the pirouettes of any pliant cane; our obsequies are, in a way, no enterprise.
At last the fountains would understand that you must not say fountain.
At the bottom of the steeples behind the most elegant reservoirs of life and of wealth, in the gorges which hide themselves between two mountains, on the sea at the hour when the sun cools down, those who make signs to me are separated by stars.
Bite the smile's fig until you know of a drapery in a forgotten town.
Branches browned with hospitable virtues.
Browned by a robe almost mute the clotted sound of capitals, the seething city dense both with proud cries and lights, overflows the saucepan of its eyelids.
But the brazier of crown and palms can scarcely be lit in the deepest part of the forest.
Butterflies burst from their skins and grow long tongues like plants.
Combine the skull and crossbones with the time of any childhood story.
Come down and breathe within my thoughts.
Come face-to-face with the actual incarnation of what has haunted me and ruled me and dominated my life for so many days and years.
Cook quickly, without any preconceived subject, fast enough so that you will not remember what you're cooking and be tempted to taste what you have created.
Death is the least offence.
Dream so much that your arms, grown accustomed to lying crossed upon my own chest in a desperate attempt to encircle your shadow, might not be able to unfold again to embrace the contours of your body.
During a short break in the party, as the players were gathering around a bowl of flaming punch, I asked a tree if it still had its red ribbon.
During the duel the combatants are unarmed.
Everything is valid when it comes to obtaining the desired suddenness from certain associations.
Expect the fish of anguish until softened in the brightest corner of every eye.
Face the dull squint with what innocence and what surprise.
Find a famished kitten on the step, and know recesses for it from the fury of the street, or warm torn elbow coverts.
Forget about your genius, your talents, and the talents of everyone else.
From each sound a thousand louder or softer sounds proceed and the beating goes on and on.
Go on as long as you like.
Goliath plunges his hand into the poisoned well and bows his head and feels my feet walk through his brain.
Halo of time, cradle nightly and sure no longer do I know what i've lived, your eyes have not always seen me.
Heraldic animals wade through the asphyxia of planets.
Here again it is not a matter of boiling, but simply of simmering.
His shoes are pale and purged like the gelatine rifle of a neo-soldier.
I am dragged along by an ice-pack with teeth of flame.
I attach no importance to life.
I cut and cleave the wood of this tree that will always be green.
I do not matter to life.
I have a boat detached from all climates.
I pin not the least of life's butterflies to importance.
I sleep on my feet, body confronting all the usual phenomena of life and love, and yet when it comes to you, the only being on the planet who matters to me now, I can no more touch your face and lips than I can those of the next random passerby.
I was then already as old as I am now.
I've dreamed of you so much that it might be too late for me to ever wake up again.
I've dreamed of you so much that you're losing your reality.
I've dreamed of you so much, have walked and talked and slept so much with your phantom presence that perhaps the only thing left for me to do now is to become a phantom among phantoms, a shadow a hundred times more shadowy than that shadow which moves and will go on moving, stepping lightly and joyfully across the sundial of your life.
If it pleased me to appear to you wrapped in this drapery, you would think that your end was approaching, like mine.
Immobilize the ingredients, glorious and forever, in the light of youth, with lamps lit very late.
In Rrose Sélavy's sleep there is a dwarf issued from a well who comes to eat her bread at night.
In a corner the sky turned over to the spines of the storm leaves white balls behind.
In the shadow we again see a precious terror.
In the town, the statues of bronze and of stone have changed places with statues of wax.
It is as though we were still running toward our salvation, or our perdition.
It is up to a miraculous equivalent to intervene -- and intervene it does.
Keep reminding yourself that chili is one of the saddest roads that leads to everything.
Kill, fly faster, love to your heart's content.
Kiss that mouth which is set over the birthplace of that voice so dear.
Leaves of day and moss of dew, reeds of wind and scented smiles, wings stirring up the world, boats laden with sky and sea, hunters of sound and sources of colour, scents the echoes of a covey of dawns.
Let yourself be carried along, events will not tolerate your interference.
Lost in the landscape of a memory and a thickened rose.
Make meek adjustments, contented with such random consolations as the wind deposits in slithered and too ample pockets.
Mirrors write Goliath's name upon my forehead, while the children are killed in the smoke of the catacombs and lovers float down from the cliffs like rain.
Oh equilibriums of the emotional scales!
On the bridge the dew with the head of a tabby cat lulls itself to sleep.
Over the sterile plain towards the smooth flesh the lava of shadowy mountains the apocalyptic temptations.
Perhaps there is a hilt to this sword, but already there is a duel in this hilt.
Plants play games with a suit of mail like a cloud.
Put your trust in the inexhaustible nature of the murmur.
Put yourself in as passive, or receptive, a state of mind as you can.
Recumbent on the straw of stars, as the day depends on innocence, the world relies on your pure sight.
Remove and discard the leaf-shaped birds with their crowns.
Roam the narrow streets around you.
Sand falls into the boiling rivers through the telescopes' mouths and forms clear drops of acid with petals of whirling flame.
Sidestep and smirk dally the doom of that inevitable thumb that slowly chafes its puckered index toward us.
Stir in tears that are not mine from steps I do not take that are steps twice.
Strain her spite through fragments of memory and math.
Tears flow away in streams of wretched population.
The bars are in the cage, and the birds come down from far above to sing before these bars.
The beds made of lilies slide beneath the lamps of dew.
The children chasing butterflies turn round and see him there with his hand in the well and my body growing from his head, and are afraid.
The children, lost in the shadows of the catacombs, call to the mirrors for help: strong-bow of salt, cutlass of memory, write on my map the name of every river.
The circus always enchants the same tramlines.
The curtains that have never been raised, float to the windows of houses that are to be built.
The eagle owns the motions of a mind’s-eye void.
The elephant is in love with the millimeter. the snail dreams of the moon’s defeat.
The face of the precipice is tender and black with lovers.
The first one shows its breasts on both sides that red insects are killing.
The future never comes.
The game enforces smirks; but we have seen the moon in lonely alleys make a grail of laughter of an empty ash can, and through all sound of gaiety and quest have heard a kitten in the wilderness.
The hands that tie and untie the knots of love and of air keep all their transparency for those who have eyes to see.
The inclined towers the oblique skies, the cars cook with the void of roads, the creatures along the country lanes.
The plaster figures have lost nothing of their expression.
The sand remembers the flood-tide.
The shape of your eyes goes round my heart, a round of dance and sweetness.
The smooth tomatoes with their mirrors reduce to a cliff like a basilisk eating flowers.
The snake jumps stirring and pricking, around the dishpan of love, filled with arrow-pierced hearts.
The butterfly buttered with straw becomes a butterfly in straw.
The nightingale pulls heart-stomachs from gut-brains.
That is to say the lilies of roses from the carnations of lilacs.
The thumb holds its right foot behind its left ear, its left hand in its right hand, on its left leg jumping over its right ear.
The sun above them is a bag of nails; the spring's first rivers hide among their hair.
The wolves are clothed on both sides in mirrors of snow.
There where the stags bend their heads to examine the years nothing more than a feeble beating is heard.
There will come an evening, the nuggets of light become still underneath the blue moss.
They drop their nets and walk into the wall like smoke.
They see the palms of hands, the crowns in eyes.
This woman became so shimmering that I could no longer see her.
To you who cook, these ingredients are, on the surface, as strange to you as they are to anyone else, and naturally you are wary of them.
Transfer on board a ship that is as yet its own ghost only.
Turn into a shadow.
Until the piss is speckled with gleams, the lion sports a pure and racy gothic mustache.
His hide is calm.
He cackles like a splotch of encores.
The crayfish owns the raspberry’s bestial voice.
The apple’s cunning, the prune’s compassion, the pumpkin’s lascivity.
The cow takes the parchment path, last in a book of flesh whose every hair weighs a pound.
Wait, stirring the mixture until translucent figures stand silently.
Watch over myself and my thoughts like a night watchman in an immense factory keeping watch alone.
We can evade you, and all else but the heart: what blame to us if the heart live on.
While you roam different wider streets, add the virginity of a little dress.
Wish to see the faces of those that wear them a great fog rises from the ground.
With these eyes which have seen my own self burning.
You walk but another walks in your footsteps.
